# IoT-Based-DC-motor-Monitoring-System

IOT has become a part of the modern world. The significance and utilization are increasing with each passing day. This approach is to design efficient and real-time wireless networks to monitor voltage, current, and speed of the motor. A sensor is set at the heap to ascertain current, a circuit is utilized to figure voltage. A IR Sensor is used to monitor the speed of the motor. Microcontrollers take input from the device they control and retain control by sending the device signals to the Wi-Fi module. Wi-Fi module is a self-contained TCP/IP protocol stack that can give any microcontroller access to wifi  network. Data are stored in a cloud database. A web facilitating is made to get the data from Things speak. Thing speak is the open IOT IoT platform. This project permit to get the voltage, speed values of the motor from anywhere. Industrial Monitoring and Control is essential to collect all the relevant information, statistics and data related to the various industrial processes, motors, machines and devices employed in industry premises. This aims at controlled access, better productivity and high quality results of industrial products being manufactured. In this new era of technological developments remote control and monitoring via communication techniques such as Wi-Fi techniques has been used in Industries.

# Output:

 In this project, we will monitoring system of DC online. We are using a Temp sensor to monitor the temperature of the motor. We can check the RPM of the motor, the voltage also can be monitored using our system. Speed monitoring or PWM control is also possible (optional). This whole thing is displayed on mobile phones using the Internet.
